"""
CSCC11 - Introduction to Machine Learning, Winter 2022, Assignment 3
B. Chan, Z. Zhang, D. Fleet
"""

Answer The Following Questions:

Visualization:
1. Do you expect logistic regression to perform well on generic_1? Why?

   Answer: Yes, because points in graph 1 are scatterd clearly into two parts.
   There exists a clear threshold between two parts that can be produced
   by logistic regression.

   What if we apply the feature map defined in Equation (2) on the assignment handout?

   Answer: It will also act as well as the original version of logistic regression.

2. Do you expect logistic regression to perform well on generic_2? Why?

   Answer: No, because two classes of points in graph 2 are crossly located in 4 main parts.
   The logistic regression cannot produce a threshold that divide diagonal parts as one class.
   Viewing these 4 parts as four-quadrant rectangular coordinate system, we cannot classify
   different sign (second and fourth quadrant) to one class and the same sign (first and third
   quadrant) to the other class. (Similar to Writing question 1-2-a)
   

   What if we apply the feature map defined in Equation (2) on the assignment handout?

   Answer: It will act well to produce a threshold with high accuracy. (Similar to Writing
   question 1-2-b)


3. Do you expect logistic regression to perform well on generic_3? Why?

   Ans: Yes, because three classes of points distribute respectively in three part and only
   a small subset of them are mixed in the middle. So the regression will perform well on
   the point that is on the side and perform badly on the point (only a small part) in the middle.

4. Why can’t we directly visualize the iris dataset? What are some ways to visualize it?

   Answer: This is because the iris dataset has four features, which cannot be represented
   by plotting.


Analysis:
1. Generic Dataset 1: Run logistic regression without regularization and without feature map. 
   Did you run into any numerical errors? If so, why do you think this is the case?

   Ans: Yes. This is because some softmax values are too small to be recognized as 0 in float point
   arithmetic, which then causes computer to do logarithm on zero.

   Now, run logistic regression with regularization. What happens? 
   What are the train and test accuracies?

   Ans: Both are nearly 100% correct with low value of alpha_inverse and beta_inverse. As the inverse
   goes up, the accuracy will go down.


2. Generic Dataset 2: Run logistic regression without regularization and without feature map.
   What are the train and test accuracies?
   
   Ans: Train 41%     Test 28%

   Run it with feature map now, did the performance get better? Why do you think that is the case?

   Ans: Yes, both go up to 100%. The original model is unable to classify the training data well while
   the new model can.


3. Generic Dataset 3: Run logistic regression without regularization and without feature map.
   What are the train and test accuracies?

   Ans: Train 79%     Test 82%
   
   What if we run it with feature map?

   Ans: Train 83%     Test 82%


4. Iris dataset: Does logistic regression without regularization and without feature map perform well on this dataset? If not, does regularization help?

   Ans: Yes Train 98.3%     Test 100%
        Regularization will lower the accuracy. As the inverse goes up, the accuracy go down.

5. What are the training and validation accuracies? Do they look reasonable? Explain.

  Ans: They are almost the same (only with a little difference). It looks reasonable because high
  training accuracies will result in high validation accuracy since the model is learning under
  the same distribution.

